In this video, we're going to do a little
bit of refactoring. One thing that's been
bothering me a little bit, notice on my
to-do list here, is we are trying to set
things up to emulate what's going to
happen in Hibernate and Spring data.
Underneath the covers, the id property is
going to be managed for us, and right now
our Map implementation, we have to manage
the id property, so not the optimal thing
that we want to be doing. I'm trying
to set this up so that we mimic that as
much as possible. We can see here on
line 23, the setting of the id property
is externalized. Basically, the caller
of this needs to know what id
to set. We want to allow the
persistence layer. In this case, it's
going to be a HashMap to allow it to
manage that. Obviously, a HashMap
can't handle its own ID settings strategy
but we can provide an implementation of
that. That's what we're going to do in
this video. I'm going to jump over to
Chrome and we can see here on my task, I
don't have that. I'm going to create a
New Issue for that.
What do we want to call this? Let's
call it...
So just update the Map implementation to
manage the setting of the ID property.
I'll go ahead and assign that to
myself to indicate that I'm working on
it.
Let's jump back over here to
IntelliJ. The implementation is
actually pretty simple.
What we can do is when I come in here
and say private
Long because we are using a Long for our
id.
We actually don't need anything here. We
can do this all within the class.
What we can do is return
Collections. That has a max function.
We can use the map. Get the keySet.
We're again saying give us the max of
that. Now we're going to say + 1 like
so. Okay, you can see that IntelliJ is not
happy here about this type. Java
being a strongly typed language, we have
some tricks that we can use to indicate
that because we're doing an abstract
class here. This can get a little bit
tricky, as far as how Java is handling
the types. What we can do is come up
here and subset about this ID value.
We can come in here and say extends,
the ID extends Long. So now
we're really unhappy. But what we can do
here is for our Map implementation, rather
than using generic,
we can say that that is going to take a
Long. So anytime we extend out this class,
as long as a Long or something that
extends it, it's specified for this, this
is going to work happily. Now, what we
want to do is come over here and
refactor the save method. What we want to
see here,
if the object being passed is not equal
to null,
we want to do some things on it.
What we want to say is if we don't
have an ID on that, so if we say...
You can see we don't have the getId value
here. Again, what we can do is since
we've refactored to have that Base
Entity so everything in our Model is
extending out from this Base Entity now.
What we can do is come over here and do
the same thing. The type that's
coming in has to extend Base Entity.
It's a nice little refactoring here.
So now, I can say if object.getId() == null,
like so. Now, we can say object.setId(getNextId()) so that will set
that NextId value on there.
Now, what we can do is take the Map,
I'd say put,
getId
like so. This goes away.
So now, basically, what we're doing in
this little block here say making sure
that the object is not equal to null. As
long as it's not equal to null, we're
going to go and try to get the Id. But if
that is null, we are going to grab the next
Id so we have this little function down
on the bottom here that's going to set
the Id to the next value, so if our
maximum value in there is three, it
gets set to four. So pretty pretty simple
logic. Nothing too mysterious there.
We can implement a little defensive
coding here and say else, so if that
object is null,
I'll say throw new RuntimeExcemption.
So we go
KABOOOM. If we tried to pass a null
object in here. Now, you can see here.
Now let's take a look at the other
implementations. Everything's happy now
because of the generics that were using.
I said at least IntelliJ thinks
everything's happy. IntelliJ is
usually pretty good there. We can see
everything's happy now so let's come
back over to the Abstract service. You
can see IntelliJ is saying that ID value is
never used, so let's just get rid of that.
Now our save method is going to be
more in line with what Spring
Data JPA provides us, which is
exactly what I wanted to do in this
refactoring. So now, what we're going to have
to do is come over here. We'll just
get rid of this.
We can see he's not happy, so we get rid of
that.
The same here and this guy here in
our bootstrap. That's going to have some
unhappiness.
Let's see here, this is actually going
through setting that Id's and now we can
actually remove these values. I'm
going to get rid of that.
We're not going to allow, just got to
go in and set the Id values,
like so. That should work. So now, let's go
ahead and try to run the application.
Again, we haven't implemented unit
testing yet. That is coming up in a
couple sections in the course so we'd
definitely be adding tests here. I'm
kind of doing it though an old-fashioned
way and make sure that the compiler does
bring things up. We can see here that
we did blow up. No such element. Let's
take a look at that.
Okay, we are getting an exception here
that this is exploding because there's
no value there yet. What we can do
here is I know this is the same.
Basically, that Map doesn't have anything
in there, so we are going kaboom there.
Let's come in here. I'm going to refactor
this on the fly.
I can actually say nextId, actually, I'm going to
do this.
I am refactoring this to say put that
into a try block.
So now, basically, I'm coming in saying
nextId equals to null. I'm initialising
it to null and then I'm going to try that
and if I get a NoSuchElementException
as I did here. We'll go ahead
and add or make that 1L, one Long.
I say in my head 1L, so let's go ahead
and try starting the application. Now we
can see that the Spring Context failed
to start up because of that
error.
So now, we could see that we started
up. I'm going to come over to Chrome. So
here's my Vets. Let's make sure that is
working now. We can see that our Id
values are getting populated. So now
we've abstracted the Id generation.
Just to quickly recap everything that's
going on here, we did cover quite a
bit. This is a summary. Let me minimize
the Spring Boot window at runtime. Up
here top line on line 10, we're using
Java generics. We're saying that
types come in so our entity type now
must extend BaseEntity. That allows
us to make some assumptions about it,
like it has an id property, as well as,
the id value must extend Long. We're
saying that has to be a Long or an
extension of the Long class. On line 12,
the Map implementation, I'm saying that
the map, the key on the map, is going to
be a Long, and then whatever that T
generic is going to be. By saying that
space entity there, on line 24, you can
see there I'm saying if the object
is null, we'll throw an exception. If
not, now because I know that object
that's coming in is going to be an
implementation of BaseEntity so I can
make the assumption that it's going to
have the getId method available. I'm
going to look to see if it does have an
Id. If not, I've created a method, a new
private method called getNextId hat is going to go out and get the next
Id value available. That's just going to
increment it up. You saw there that
it did throw an exception. We can see
down a line 51 there, I'm catching that.
Basically, if that map is empty and
has not been initialised, we're going to get
an exception tossed which is okay.
We're gonna going to the exception and
just return back one. We're going to
start off at id 1 if the map is empty.
Pretty simple logic there. If there is
something in there, we'll increment it so
we'll take it plus 1. Anything that
goes up plus 1, and then here,
let's see here. I try to expand this out.
Trying to get to actually change to
show. Ah, there we are. We can see it. Kind
of hard to see, but we can say return super.
We refactored the save method to
drop the Id value. So now, we don't care
about the Id setting, just like in JPA.
Using Spring Data JPA, we're not
going to care about how the Id value gets
generated. We are allowing our
persistence layer to do it, which is
exactly what we've done in our Map
implementation. We wrote this getNextId,
simple logic. But again, we're trying to
refactor things to make things look and
behave like Hibernate. Coming up, we
will be implementing those methods as
well. Let's see here. That was
#23. I'm going to go ahead and
Commit this code into GitHub.
Just double-check that. Closes
#23. Yep, I am going to Commit and
Push.
Again, let's see here.
Just go to closed here in a second,
maybe. There I
had to click refresh. I know GitHub
sometimes it will pick it up, but if the
tab has been open for a while and
there's been no activity, it's not
going to be getting the changes quite as
quick if it's been open for a little bit.
So that closes out that issue for us.